European Heat Wave: France Records Hottest Day

France recorded its hottest day ever on June 23 as an early heat wave gripped Europe, disrupting school and transportation schedules in multiple countries.

Punishing temperatures extended to the United Kingdom and Spain, where weather agencies issued red alerts — like France — about the risks of extreme heat for tens of millions of people.

In France, the average temperature nationally was 29.8 degrees Celsius on June 23, a new record. However, temperatures at some individual locations went well above 40 degrees.

Air conditioning is not common in France, so schools, public transportation and sporting events have been affected by the heat.In Paris, the Eiffel Tower closed in the afternoon instead of late at night, as it usually does.The Louvre Museum said it would close two hours earlier than normal between June 24 and 27.

France has also recorded 40 fatalities from drowning since June 18 as people seek relief in rivers and lakes, despite authorities' warnings about unsupervised swimming.Most of the drownings involved young people, Prime Minister Sébastien Lecornu said.

This early summer heat wave has already been compared to the August 2003 heat wave that caused an estimated 15,000 deaths — many of them among older people in apartments and retirement homes that didn't have air conditioning.

In the UK, hundreds of schools planned to close or close early this week because of the heat.Multiple UK train operators, including the express train serving London Gatwick Airport, said they were canceling or reducing services.Railway operators urged people to travel only if "absolutely necessary."

Further south, Spain's national weather service, Aemet, issued red alerts for temperatures of 44 degrees Celsius in southern Andalusia and 40 degrees Celsius in the normally temperate northern regions of Cantabria and the Basque Country.

Human-caused climate change is tied to increasingly extreme weather, and UN climate agency projections say the next five years are likely to shatter more heat records.

